README.md, before:

# @semantic-release/exec

[**semantic-release**](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) plugin to execute custom shell commands.

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/semantic-release/exec.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/semantic-release/exec)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/semantic-release/exec.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/semantic-release/exec)
[![Greenkeeper badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/semantic-release/exec.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)

[![npm latest version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@semantic-release/exec/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@semantic-release/exec)
[![npm next version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@semantic-release/exec/next.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@semantic-release/exec)

| Step               | Description                                                                                             |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `verifyConditions` | Execute a shell command to verify if the release should happen.                                         |
| `analyzeCommits`   | Execute a shell command to determine the type of release.                                               |
| `verifyRelease`    | Execute a shell command to verifying a release that was determined before and is about to be published. |
| `generateNotes`    | Execute a shell command to generate the release note.                                                   |
| `prepare`          | Execute a shell command to prepare the release.                                                         |
| `publish`          | Execute a shell command to publish the release.                                                         |
| `success`          | Execute a shell command to notify of a new release.                                                     |
| `fail`             | Execute a shell command to notify of a failed release.                                                  |

## Install

```bash
$ npm install @semantic-release/exec -D
```

## Usage

The plugin can be configured in the [**semantic-release** configuration file](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/caribou/docs/usage/configuration.md#configuration):

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    "@semantic-release/commit-analyzer",
    "@semantic-release/release-notes-generator",
    ["@semantic-release/exec", {
      "verifyConditionsCmd": "./verify.sh",
      "publishCmd": "./publish.sh ${nextRelease.version} ${options.branch} ${commits.length} ${Date.now()}"
    }],
  ]
}
```

With this example:
- the shell command `./verify.sh` will be executed on the [verify conditions step](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release#release-steps)
- the shell command `./publish.sh 1.0.0 master 3 870668040000` (for the release of version `1.0.0` from branch `master` with `3` commits on `August 4th, 1997 at 2:14 AM`) will be executed on the [publish step](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release#release-steps)

## Configuration

### Options

<<<<<<< HEAD
| Options               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `verifyConditionsCmd` | The shell command to execute during the verify condition step. See [verifyConditionsCmd](#verifyconditionscmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `analyzeCommitsCmd`   | The shell command to execute during the analyze commits step. See [analyzeCommitsCmd](#analyzecommitscmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `verifyReleaseCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the verify release step. See [verifyReleaseCmd](#verifyreleasecmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `generateNotesCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the generate notes step. See [generateNotesCmd](#generatenotescmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `prepareCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the prepare step. See [prepareCmd](#preparecmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `publishCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the publish step. See [publishCmd](#publishcmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `successCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the success step. See [successCmd](#successcmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `failCmd`             | The shell command to execute during the fail step. See [failCmd](#failcmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `shell`               | The shell to use to run the command. See [execa#shell](https://github.com/sindresorhus/execa#shell).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `execCwd`             | The path to use as current working directory when executing the shell commands. This path is relative to the path from which **semantic-release** is running. For example if **semantic-release** runs from `/my-project` and `execCwd` is set to `buildScripts` then the shell command will be executed from `/my-project/buildScripts` |
=======
| Options               | Description                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `verifyConditionsCmd` | The shell command to execute during the verify condition step. See [verifyConditionsCmd](#verifyconditionscmd). |
| `analyzeCommitsCmd`   | The shell command to execute during the analyze commits step. See [analyzeCommitsCmd](#analyzecommitscmd).      |
| `verifyReleaseCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the verify release step. See [verifyReleaseCmd](#verifyreleasecmd).         |
| `generateNotesCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the generate notes step. See [generateNotesCmd](#generatenotescmd).         |
| `prepareCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the prepare step. See [prepareCmd](#preparecmd).                            |
| `publishCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the publish step. See [publishCmd](#publishcmd).                            |
| `successCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the success step. See [successCmd](#successcmd).                            |
| `failCmd`             | The shell command to execute during the fail step. See [failCmd](#failcmd).                                     |
| `shell`               | The shell to use to run the command. See [execa#shell](https://github.com/sindresorhus/execa#shell).            |
>>>>>>> feat: add dedicated command option for each step

Each shell command is generated with [Lodash template](https://lodash.com/docs#template). All the objets passed to the [semantic-release plugins](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release#plugins) are available as template options.

## verifyConditionsCmd

Execute a shell command to verify if the release should happen.

| Command property | Description                                                              |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | `0` if the verification is successful, or any other exit code otherwise. |
| `stdout`         | Write only the reason for the verification to fail.                      |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                 |

## analyzeCommitsCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                                                                |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error.                                        |
| `stdout`         | Only the release type (`major`, `minor` or `patch` etc..) can be written to `stdout`. If no release has to be done the command must not write to `stdout`. |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                                                                   |

## verifyReleaseCmd

| Command property | Description                                                              |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | `0` if the verification is successful, or any other exit code otherwise. |
| `stdout`         | Only the reason for the verification to fail can be written to `stdout`. |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                 |

## generateNotesCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Only the release note must be written to `stdout`.                                                                  |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |

## prepareCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |

## publishCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error.                                                                                                                                |
| `stdout`         | The `release` information can be written to `stdout` as parseable JSON (for example `{"name": "Release name", "url": "http://url/release/1.0.0"}`). If the command write non parseable JSON to `stdout` no `release` information will be returned. |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

## successCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |

## failCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |

Commit message:

feat: add `addChannel` plugin step

README.md, after:

# @semantic-release/exec

[**semantic-release**](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) plugin to execute custom shell commands.

[![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/semantic-release/exec.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/semantic-release/exec)
[![Codecov](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/semantic-release/exec.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/semantic-release/exec)
[![Greenkeeper badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/semantic-release/exec.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)

[![npm latest version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@semantic-release/exec/latest.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@semantic-release/exec)
[![npm next version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@semantic-release/exec/next.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@semantic-release/exec)

| Step               | Description                                                                                             |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `verifyConditions` | Execute a shell command to verify if the release should happen.                                         |
| `analyzeCommits`   | Execute a shell command to determine the type of release.                                               |
| `verifyRelease`    | Execute a shell command to verifying a release that was determined before and is about to be published. |
| `generateNotes`    | Execute a shell command to generate the release note.                                                   |
| `prepare`          | Execute a shell command to prepare the release.                                                         |
| `publish`          | Execute a shell command to publish the release.                                                         |
| `success`          | Execute a shell command to notify of a new release.                                                     |
| `fail`             | Execute a shell command to notify of a failed release.                                                  |

## Install

```bash
$ npm install @semantic-release/exec -D
```

## Usage

The plugin can be configured in the [**semantic-release** configuration file](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/caribou/docs/usage/configuration.md#configuration):

```json
{
  "plugins": [
    "@semantic-release/commit-analyzer",
    "@semantic-release/release-notes-generator",
    ["@semantic-release/exec", {
      "verifyConditionsCmd": "./verify.sh",
      "publishCmd": "./publish.sh ${nextRelease.version} ${options.branch} ${commits.length} ${Date.now()}"
    }],
  ]
}
```

With this example:
- the shell command `./verify.sh` will be executed on the [verify conditions step](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release#release-steps)
- the shell command `./publish.sh 1.0.0 master 3 870668040000` (for the release of version `1.0.0` from branch `master` with `3` commits on `August 4th, 1997 at 2:14 AM`) will be executed on the [publish step](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release#release-steps)

## Configuration

### Options

<<<<<<< HEAD
| Options               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `verifyConditionsCmd` | The shell command to execute during the verify condition step. See [verifyConditionsCmd](#verifyconditionscmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `analyzeCommitsCmd`   | The shell command to execute during the analyze commits step. See [analyzeCommitsCmd](#analyzecommitscmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `verifyReleaseCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the verify release step. See [verifyReleaseCmd](#verifyreleasecmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `generateNotesCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the generate notes step. See [generateNotesCmd](#generatenotescmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `prepareCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the prepare step. See [prepareCmd](#preparecmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `addChannelCmd`       | The shell command to execute during the add channel step. See [addChannelCmd](#addchannelcmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `publishCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the publish step. See [publishCmd](#publishcmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `successCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the success step. See [successCmd](#successcmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `failCmd`             | The shell command to execute during the fail step. See [failCmd](#failcmd).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `shell`               | The shell to use to run the command. See [execa#shell](https://github.com/sindresorhus/execa#shell).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `execCwd`             | The path to use as current working directory when executing the shell commands. This path is relative to the path from which **semantic-release** is running. For example if **semantic-release** runs from `/my-project` and `execCwd` is set to `buildScripts` then the shell command will be executed from `/my-project/buildScripts` |
=======
| Options               | Description                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `verifyConditionsCmd` | The shell command to execute during the verify condition step. See [verifyConditionsCmd](#verifyconditionscmd). |
| `analyzeCommitsCmd`   | The shell command to execute during the analyze commits step. See [analyzeCommitsCmd](#analyzecommitscmd).      |
| `verifyReleaseCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the verify release step. See [verifyReleaseCmd](#verifyreleasecmd).         |
| `generateNotesCmd`    | The shell command to execute during the generate notes step. See [generateNotesCmd](#generatenotescmd).         |
| `prepareCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the prepare step. See [prepareCmd](#preparecmd).                            |
| `publishCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the publish step. See [publishCmd](#publishcmd).                            |
| `successCmd`          | The shell command to execute during the success step. See [successCmd](#successcmd).                            |
| `failCmd`             | The shell command to execute during the fail step. See [failCmd](#failcmd).                                     |
| `shell`               | The shell to use to run the command. See [execa#shell](https://github.com/sindresorhus/execa#shell).            |
>>>>>>> feat: add dedicated command option for each step

Each shell command is generated with [Lodash template](https://lodash.com/docs#template). All the objets passed to the [semantic-release plugins](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release#plugins) are available as template options.

## verifyConditionsCmd

Execute a shell command to verify if the release should happen.

| Command property | Description                                                              |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | `0` if the verification is successful, or any other exit code otherwise. |
| `stdout`         | Write only the reason for the verification to fail.                      |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                 |

## analyzeCommitsCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                                                                |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error.                                        |
| `stdout`         | Only the release type (`major`, `minor` or `patch` etc..) can be written to `stdout`. If no release has to be done the command must not write to `stdout`. |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                                                                   |

## verifyReleaseCmd

| Command property | Description                                                              |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | `0` if the verification is successful, or any other exit code otherwise. |
| `stdout`         | Only the reason for the verification to fail can be written to `stdout`. |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                 |

## generateNotesCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Only the release note must be written to `stdout`.                                                                  |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |

## prepareCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |

## addChannelCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error.                                                                                                                                |
| `stdout`         | The `release` information can be written to `stdout` as parseable JSON (for example `{"name": "Release name", "url": "http://url/release/1.0.0"}`). If the command write non parseable JSON to `stdout` no `release` information will be returned. |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

## publishCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error.                                                                                                                                |
| `stdout`         | The `release` information can be written to `stdout` as parseable JSON (for example `{"name": "Release name", "url": "http://url/release/1.0.0"}`). If the command write non parseable JSON to `stdout` no `release` information will be returned. |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

## successCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |

## failCmd

| Command property | Description                                                                                                         |
|------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `exit code`      | Any non `0` code is considered as an unexpected error and will stop the `semantic-release` execution with an error. |
| `stdout`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |
| `stderr`         | Can be used for logging.                                                                                            |
